# Mosaic Generator
*Skills: Python, Image Processing, Linear Algebra, Multivariable Calculus, Algorithms Visualization*


### Overview
This program converts an image to a mosaic. The output is an image (diffuse map), depth map, normal map, and specular color map. The algorithm builds upon and extends the work found in the article A. Hauser. *Simulating Decorative Mosaics.* In SIGGRAPH'01: 573-580, 2001.

*Prerequisite Libraries: scipy, numpy, imageio, matplotlib, skimage, tkinter*

### Motivation
For purposes of graphic design or texturing architectural 3D models, sometimes it may be useful to convert an image into a mosaic. Existing filters in programs such as Photoshop fail to produce convincing mosaic effects because they do not take into consideration the contours of the image. The article A. Hauser. *Simulating Decorative Mosaics.* In SIGGRAPH'01: 573-580, 2001 proposes a technique using edge features to generate a directional field, using Lloyd's algorithm with pyramidal distance functions, then rendering tiles. This project extends the first step of the process to automatically detect edge features using a gradient map and various filters. The pixels with the largest gradient are considered edge features, however the algorithm allows for lower features to be included as well. The height of these features is scaled based on the gradient magnitude, thus minor features are allowed to impact the directional field if they are far away from major features. The algorithm for generating the Vornoi diagram is mostly unchanged except a different distance function is used to generate the pyramids, since Manhattan distance results in corners being oriented towards the orientation axes instead of the sides. Finally, another algorithm is added after tile placement to reduce empty space between tiles as well as tile overlap. This is done by iterative gradient descent on the corners of the tiles, where the gradient is re-calculated from the new tile positions and shapes. The tile shapes are used to generate an image of the final mosaic, using the mean of colors covered by each tile as the tile color. For the purposes of 3D texturing, a depth map and normal map are generated by randomly tilting and moving tiles along the z axis. This enables the tiles to sparkle when rendered.

### Usage
The graphical user interface enables the user to set any of the parameters used in the mosaic generation.
